guide/src/python-from-rust.md, before:

# Calling Python in Rust code

This chapter of the guide documents some ways to interact with Python code from Rust:
 - How to call Python functions
 - How to execute existing Python code

## Interacting with the Python interpreter

To safely interact with the Python interpreter a Rust thread must have a corresponding Python thread state and hold the [Global Interpreter Lock (GIL)](#the-global-interpreter-lock). PyO3 has a `Python<'py>` token that is used to prove that these conditions
are met. Its lifetime `'py` is a central part of PyO3's API.

The `Python<'py>` token serves three purposes:

* It provides global APIs for the Python interpreter, such as [`py.eval()`][eval] and [`py.import()`][import].
* It can be passed to functions that require a proof of holding the GIL, such as [`Py::clone_ref`][clone_ref].
* Its lifetime `'py` is used to bind many of PyO3's types to the Python interpreter, such as [`Bound<'py, T>`][Bound].

PyO3's types that are bound to the `'py` lifetime, for example `Bound<'py, T>`, all contain a `Python<'py>` token. This means they have full access to the Python interpreter and offer a complete API for interacting with Python objects.

Consult [PyO3's API documentation][obtaining-py] to learn how to acquire one of these tokens.

### The Global Interpreter Lock

Concurrent programming in Python is aided by the Global Interpreter Lock (GIL), which ensures that only one Python thread can use the Python interpreter and its API at the same time. This allows it to be used to synchronize code. See the [`pyo3::sync`] module for synchronization tools PyO3 offers that are based on the GIL's guarantees.

Non-Python operations (system calls and native Rust code) can unlock the GIL. See [the section on parallelism](parallelism.md) for how to do that using PyO3's API.

## Python's memory model

Python memory model differs from Rust's memory model in two key ways:
- There is no concept of ownership; all Python objects are reference counted
- There is no concept of exclusive (`&mut`) references; any reference can mutate a Python object

PyO3's API reflects this by providing smart pointer types, `Py<T>`, `Bound<'py, T>`, and (the very rarely used) `Borrowed<'a, 'py, T>`. These smart pointers all use Python reference counting. See the [subchapter on types](./types.md) for more detail on these types.

Because of the lack of exclusive `&mut` references, PyO3's APIs for Python objects, for example [`PyListMethods::append`], use shared references. This is safe because Python objects have internal mechanisms to prevent data races (as of time of writing, the Python GIL).

[obtaining-py]: {{#PYO3_DOCS_URL}}/pyo3/marker/struct.Python.html#obtaining-a-python-token
[`pyo3::sync`]: {{#PYO3_DOCS_URL}}/pyo3/sync/index.html

Commit message:

progress on types.md; probably more to go

guide/src/python-from-rust.md, after:

# Calling Python in Rust code

This chapter of the guide documents some ways to interact with Python code from Rust.

Below is an introduction to the `'py` lifetime and some general remarks about how PyO3's API reasons about Python code.

The subchapters also cover the following topics:
 - Python object types available in PyO3's API
 - How to work with Python exceptions
 - How to call Python functions
 - How to execute existing Python code

## The `'py` lifetime

To safely interact with the Python interpreter a Rust thread must have a corresponding Python thread state and hold the [Global Interpreter Lock (GIL)](#the-global-interpreter-lock). PyO3 has a `Python<'py>` token that is used to prove that these conditions
are met. Its lifetime `'py` is a central part of PyO3's API.

The `Python<'py>` token serves three purposes:

* It provides global APIs for the Python interpreter, such as [`py.eval()`][eval] and [`py.import()`][import].
* It can be passed to functions that require a proof of holding the GIL, such as [`Py::clone_ref`][clone_ref].
* Its lifetime `'py` is used to bind many of PyO3's types to the Python interpreter, such as [`Bound<'py, T>`][Bound].

PyO3's types that are bound to the `'py` lifetime, for example `Bound<'py, T>`, all contain a `Python<'py>` token. This means they have full access to the Python interpreter and offer a complete API for interacting with Python objects.

Consult [PyO3's API documentation][obtaining-py] to learn how to acquire one of these tokens.

### The Global Interpreter Lock

Concurrent programming in Python is aided by the Global Interpreter Lock (GIL), which ensures that only one Python thread can use the Python interpreter and its API at the same time. This allows it to be used to synchronize code. See the [`pyo3::sync`] module for synchronization tools PyO3 offers that are based on the GIL's guarantees.

Non-Python operations (system calls and native Rust code) can unlock the GIL. See [the section on parallelism](parallelism.md) for how to do that using PyO3's API.

## Python's memory model

Python memory model differs from Rust's memory model in two key ways:
- There is no concept of ownership; all Python objects are reference counted
- There is no concept of exclusive (`&mut`) references; any reference can mutate a Python object

PyO3's API reflects this by providing smart pointer types, `Py<T>`, `Bound<'py, T>`, and (the very rarely used) `Borrowed<'a, 'py, T>`. These smart pointers all use Python reference counting. See the [subchapter on types](./types.md) for more detail on these types.

Because of the lack of exclusive `&mut` references, PyO3's APIs for Python objects, for example [`PyListMethods::append`], use shared references. This is safe because Python objects have internal mechanisms to prevent data races (as of time of writing, the Python GIL).

[obtaining-py]: {{#PYO3_DOCS_URL}}/pyo3/marker/struct.Python.html#obtaining-a-python-token
[`pyo3::sync`]: {{#PYO3_DOCS_URL}}/pyo3/sync/index.html
